# Hour 9. Responding to Events

- What is event handling and what are proper cross-browser event handlers?

## Understanding Event Handlers

- events are fundamental
- JavaScript needs a way of detecting user actions(ie events)
- *event handler* - code must be called from these to be associated with events when they fire.

### Examples of Events

- click, mouseover, mouseout and the `body`'s `load` event
- COPY TABLE of common events.

## Adding Event Handlers

- it's better to keep HTML and JS seperate.
- More elegant and flexible way:
  - access the element(ie button) from within the JavaScript code:

- suppose you have this function:

~~~javascript
function buttonAlert() {
    alert("you clicked the button");
}
~~~

- first way to link them:
~~~html
<input type="button" id="myButton" onclick="buttonAlert()" />
~~~
- better way to link them:
~~~javascript
document.getElementById('myButton').onclick = buttonAlert
~~~
This is called *registering* an event handler notice we don't invoke the function. This would pass the function return value to the elements onclick handler

## Removing an Event Handler

~~~javascript
document.getElementById("myButton").onclick = null;
~~~

not sure why you would do this.

## Default Actions

### Preventing Default Actions

## Try it Yourself: Preventing the onSubmit Default Action

- [default.html](default.html)


## The `event` Object

- the `event` object contains the information about said event.
- it is automatically generated by the browser
- how events are handled suffers from browser incompatibilities
- different approaches, stay tuned!

### The W3C Approach

- the `event` object is automatically passed to an event handler function as an argument whenever it is fired.
- to access its properties declare it as a parameter to the event handler.

~~~javascript
myElement = document.getElementById("theID");
myElement.onclick = function(e) { 
    console.log(e.type);
 }
~~~

### The Microsoft Approach

- invented a property of the `window` object called `event`
- `window.event` contains the details of the latest event fired.

## Cross-Browser Event Handlers

- "The trick is to test for the presence of the event object within your event handler function.

## Try it Yourself: Listing `onClick` Event Properties

## Advanced Event Handler Registration

### The W3C Method

### The Microsoft Method

## A Cross-Browser Implementation

## Summary

- how JS can be used to handle events
- cross-browser methods:
  - addEventListener
  - attachEvent
